.TH N2 7 "June 2021" "Project N2" "User Command"

.SH NAME
.B n2
- The Final Solution of Dot-Files Management in Unix Systems

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B n2
.B subcommand

.SH DESCRIPTION
Command
.B n2
Facilitates management and information querying for project n2.  Project n2
provides version controlled initialization files for common unix tools, such as
bash, vim, tmux, git, etc.

.TP
.B help
Shows this man page. Same as
.B man n2.

.TP
.B create-m2
Creates a demo M2 directory.

.TP
.B list-m2
Enumerate M2 directories.

.TP
.B update
Updates project n2 and all discovered m2 repos by issuing git pull on the
current branch.

.TP
.B status
Checks status of project n2 and all discovered m2 repos by issuing git status
on the current branches.

.TP
.B link-gitconfigs
Re-links git configs from M2 directories to the static entries in under N2 dir.

.SH M2 DIRECTORY

Project N2 allows customization by discovering M2 directories and picking up
configurations under them. An M2 directory should be placed directly under
.B
$HOME
and
.B .m2
should be the first three characters in its name. Valid examples are

.EX
    ~/.m2
    ~/.m2-10-personal
    ~/.m2-20-work
.EE

M2 driectories are discovered by their lexical order and the configurations are
loaded in the same order. That means, in the previous examples, configurations
under
.B ~/.m2-20-work
will override those in
.B ~/.m2-10-personal
when they conflict.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/bash/profile/*.sh
Stores bash profiles. Path extensions and other non-idempotent configs are
recommended to put here.  Files are sourced in ascii order and recommended to
be named like
.I 00-example.sh.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/bash/rc/*.sh

Stores bash rc files. Interactive enhancement configurations, e.g. alias and
functions definitions, and other idempotent configurations are recommended to
put here. Files are sourced in ascii order and recommended to be named like
.I 00-example.sh.

Note: Don't do PATH append/prepending here. Use the profile dir instead. For
example,

.EX
    export PATH="/my/favorite:$PATH"
.EE

would work when you put it either under
.B rc
or
.B profile.
However, files under
.B rc
will be sourced everytime when you do
.B source ~/.bashrc
and your
.B PATH
will be prepended multiple times. Unexpected precedence might happen.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/bash/git/config
Stores git config files. Currently only
.I config
will take effect.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/bash/tmux/conf
Stores tmux configuration. Currently only
.I conf
will take effect.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/bash/vim/*.vim
Stores vim rc files. Files are sourced in ASCII order and recommended to be
named like
.I 00-example.vim.

.TP
.B ~/.m2*/exec
Stores executables. This directory is automatically included in the PATH
variable.

.SH MODIFIED COMMAND
.TP
.B cd
A modified version from Petar Marinov's acd_func.

.TP
.B cd --
Print
.B cd
history up to 10 items.

.TP
.B cd -#
.B cd
into history item '#'.

.SH ONE LETTER ALIASES

.TP
.B -
cd ..

.TP
.B t [session-name]
Attachs to session
.B session-name
(defaults to "main") in
.B tmux.
Creates session if not exist.

.SH TOY COMMAND

.TP
.B bashtrap [label]
.TQ
.B lab [label]
While true, do bash. No need to panic --- you have your way out :)

.TP
.B regex-test
An interactive environment for testing bash regular expression.

.TP
.B perm-stack
Prints the permission stack of current directory and all parent directories.

.SH FEATURE VARIABLE

.TP
.B N2_ENABLE_STATUS_LINE
Enables status line after each command.

.TP
.B N2_THICK_SEPARATOR
Uses thick separator (useful when a terminal does not support underline [tput
smul]). The thick separator takes one extra line after each command to report
the status.

.TP
.B N2_THICK_SEPARATOR_CHAR
Overrides filler char in the thick separator.

.TP
.B N2_ENABLE_CMD_EXPANSION
Enables command expansion. Before execution, the command will be analyzed and
the true target will be printed. For example,
.B pwd
will be expanded as

.EX
    builtin pwd
.EE

or

.EX
    /bin/pwd (or something similar)
.EE

depending on the configuration of enabling the bash pwd builtin.

.TP
.B N2_ENABLE_EXPLICIT_EOF
[experimental] Explicitly marks eof if last command did not end with a new-line
character. This ensures that the next command prompt will always be printed
at the line beginning.

.TP
.B N2_CMD_EXPANSION_SINK
Overrides the target fd when printing command expansion; default is the
standard error fd: &2; allowed formats are:
.B /path/to/a/writtable/file
or
.B &N
where N is an open file descriptor.

.TP
.B N2_CMD_EXPANSION_SINK_PROXY_FD
Overrides the temporary allocated file descriptor used to relay the command
expansion string. Default value is 99.

.TP
.B N2_AUTO_ATTACH_TMUX
Whether to xxec tmux automatically upon a remote login.
Valid options: yes, no (default).

.TP
.B N2_PS1_HOSTNAME
Forces using this as hostname info in the bash PS1 prompt and tmux status panel
(needs export).

.TP
.B N2_REPORT_UNBOUND_VARIABLE
Reports unbound (undefined) variable substitution.
Valid options: yes, no (default).

.SH STYLE VARIABLE

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_HOSTNAME N2_FMT_PS1_HOSTNAME_ROOT
Overrides hostname style in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_USERNAME N2_FMT_PS1_USERNAME_ROOT
Overrides username style in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_USERHOST_PUNCT N2_FMT_PS1_USERHOST_PUNCT_ROOT
Overrides user and host punct style in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_IFS N2_FMT_PS1_IFS_VALUE
Overrides non-default IFS label and value in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_CHROOT N2_FMT_PS1_CHROOT_ROOT
Overrides style for chroot indicator in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_BG_INDICATOR
Overrides style of number of background processes indicator in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_SHLVL_INDICATOR
Overrides style of shell level indicator in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_SCREEN_INDICATOR
Overrides style of GNU screen session indicator in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_GIT_INDICATOR
Overrides style of git indicator in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_CWD
Overrides style of cwd in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_PERM_GOOD N2_FMT_PS1_PERM_BAD
Overrides style of permission indicator.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_PHYSICAL_CWD
Overrides style of automatic physical cwd indicator in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_DOLLAR_HASH
Overrides style of the dollar/hash sign in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PS1_LABEL
Overrides style of the label field in bash PS1 prompt.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_STATUS_OK
Overrides style of the process status-ok indicator.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_STATUS_ERROR
Overrides style of the process status-error indicator.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_STATUS_HRULE
Overrides style of the process status line.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_CMD_EXPANSIONS
Overrides style of the command expansion lines.

.TP
.B N2_FMT_PINNED_KEY N2_FMT_PINNED_VALUE N2_FMT_PINNED_PUNCT
Overrides style of the pinned variables.

.SH HOOK

Declare the following functions to achieve customized behaviors. N2 frame work
will call these functions if they are declared, or use default behavior
otherwise.

.TP
.B function n2_hook_ps1_cwd
Reformats the cwd field in bash PS1. Argument $1 is the cwd. Reformatted cwd
should be inline-echoed.  This hook is often useful when one wants to highlight
a specific field in cwd; string substitutions of
.B $(__n2_fmt ps1_cwd)
and
.B $(__n2_inline_echo)
may be helpful. Piping to GNU sed(1) to take advantage of regular expression is
often helpful.

.TP
.B function n2_hook_postcd
Dos extra work after
.B cd
command. Arguments are ignored.

.TP
.B function n2_hook_label_<LABEL>
Extra initialization for labelled session <LABEL> in
.B lab
or
.B bashtrap.
Helper function
.B n2_define_pinned <VAR_NAME> <VAR_VALUE>
can be used to define bash variables to be printed along with the PS1.

.SH
AUTHOR
Hengyang Zhao <hzhao877502@gmail.com>
